# (Prosper Loan Dataset)
## by (EGBEAHIE, WHITNEY EHILUONAMHEN)


## Dataset

> This is a Prosper Loan Data with 113,937 rows and 81 columns. it shows a loan facility collected from customers across different career of life. Different categories of occupation includes: skilled labor, excutive, sales-retail, computer programmer, food service sale-commission e.t.c. Preliminary wrangling such as checking the non null values and datatypes of each column was done, descriptive statistics was carried out using the describe function, columns record were reduced by dropping the columns from 81 to 45 columns, nan values were dropped and stored in a new Dataframe and data types were converted from float64 to int64. Univariate, bivariate and Multivariate exploration was carried out and some interesting interactions were observed from the exploration of the Prosper Loan Datasets as shown in the observations of all the visualization carried out.

## Summary of Findings

> The first three visualizations I carried out centered on the count of borrower state, loan status category count and which occupation applied the most for loan. it was shown in the borrower state chartn that Califonia (CA) has the highest number of loans, which is twice or a bit more than twice the next highest state FL, loan status category count chart shows that majority of the loan repayment has been completed which has the highest count followed by a significant number of loans are still currently running and for the occupation category, other professsions or category appllied for loan the most, followed by professionals then the computer programmers, which may appertain to their income range category. The distributions of the Prosper Principal Outstanding and the borrower rate were plotted. It was observed from the two plots that they are unimodal distributions and skewed to the right. Another plot of employment status that were considered to collect loan most were the employed category, followed by full time and self-employed status. A plot of income range that received most loans were made and it can be shown that $25,000-49,999 received most followed by $50,000-79,999 and $100,000+. Also, proportion of borrowers who are home owners and borrowers who were in a group at the time of listing were carried out were visualized and it was shown that borrowers who are home owners are more than borrowers who are not home owners with a proportion of 52.8% and 47.2% respectively and also borrowers who were in a group at the time of listing are more than borrowers who were not with a proportion of 88.8% and 11.2% respectively.

  >In the bivariate visualizations, a scatterplot was used to represent the relationship between Estimated Loss vs Estimated Return and it gave a linear positive relationship from the plot. 
Furthermore, a pointplot was used to show what number of inquiries in the last six months has the highest total number of inquiries, and It was shown from the plot that, 19.0 has the highest inquiries in the last 6months transaction and about 67 has the highest total inquiries. Generally it is shown that the inquiries last 6months and total inquiries increased against one another and along the line only few decreases occured against each other. A boxplot was also used to show the relationship between ratings and loan amount and It can be shown that AA is the best rating and has the highest maximum whisker length followed by rating A and B. HR has the least rating against the loan amount. Also the plot was arranged in chronological order, from the higest rating AA to the lowest rating HR.
  
  > In the Multivariate visualizations, a scatterplot was used also to show relationship between loan amount and monthly payment by encoding with color with two employment status; employed and self-employed this gave a linear positive relationship with employed having more variations. Secondly, a facet grid was used to show relationship between principal outstanding and monthly loan payment subjected to two employment status; employed and self-employed and it shows that employed gave more variations. Therefore, the income category with the highest variations and predictions of prosperprincipaloutstanding against monthly loan payment is 100,000 dollars+. 
 Lastly, a scatterplot was used in the representation of the relationship between three numeric variables; Estimated Loss, Estimated Return and Estimated Effective Yield by encoding with size and it can be shown that they have approximately the same size but lender yield has a bigger size. 

## Key Insights for Presentation

> It can be shown from the relationship of loan amount and monthly payment by encoding with two colors with two employment status namely; employed and self-employed, there are two colors representation due to the two categories of Employment status which are employed and self-employed. Both variations exhibited linear positive relationships with employed having the highest Loan Amount as well as highest monthly loan payment. Basically, more people were also given loan in the employed category than in the self-employed category.
